RUMM-1453 Documentation revamp (#429)
DataDog/dd-sdk-ios: docs/rum_collection/README.md

---
title: RUM iOS Monitoring
kind: documentation
beta: true
description: "Collect RUM data from your iOS applications."
further_reading:
  - link: "https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios"
    tag: "Github"
    text: "dd-sdk-ios Source code"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring"

>     tag: "Homepage"
>     text: "Explore Datadog RUM"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Datadog Real User Monitoring"
```

**Minimum iOS version**: Datadog SDK for iOS supports iOS v11+.

### Declare SDK as dependency

1. Declare [dd-sdk-ios][1] as a dependency, depending on your package manager.

| Package manager            | Installation method                                                                         |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [CocoaPods][2]             | `pod 'DatadogSDK'`                                                                          |
| [Swift Package Manager][3] | `.package(url: "https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios.git", .upToNextMajor(from: "1.0.0"))` |
| [Carthage][4]              | `github "DataDog/dd-sdk-ios"`                                                               |

### Specify application details in UI

1. Select UX Monitoring -> RUM Applications -> New Application
2. Choose `iOS` as your Application Type in [Datadog UI][2] and provide a new application name to generate a unique Datadog application ID and client token.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/ios/screenshot_rum.png" alt="RUM Event hierarchy" style="width:50%;border:none" >}}

> To ensure safety of your data, you must use a client token: you cannot use [Datadog API keys][6] to configure the `dd-sdk-ios` library as they would be exposed client-side in the iOS application byte code. For more information about setting up a client token, see the [client token documentation][7].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure safety of your data, you must use a client token, **not** [Datadog API keys][6] to configure the `dd-sdk-ios` library because they would be exposed client-side in the iOS application byte code. For more information about setting up a client token, see the [client token documentation][7].
```

        )
        .set(serviceName: "app-name")
        .trackUIKitRUMViews()
        .trackUIKitActions()
        .trackURLSession()
        .build()
)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "EU" %}}

```swift
Datadog.initialize(
    appContext: .init(),
    trackingConsent: trackingConsent,
    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
        .builderUsing(
            rumApplicationID: "<rum_application_id>",
            clientToken: "<client_token>",
            environment: "<environment_name>"
        )
        .set(serviceName: "app-name")
        .set(endpoint: .eu)
        .trackUIKitRUMViews()
        .trackUIKitActions()
        .trackURLSession()
        .build()
)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

RUM SDK automatically tracks user sessions, depending on options provided at SDK initialization. Learn more about [`trackingConsent`][8] to add GDPR compliance for your EU users and other [initialization parameters][9] for SDK configuartion.

### Initialize RUM Monitor and DDURLSesssionDelegate

Configure and register the RUM Monitor. You only need to do it once, usually in your `AppDelegate` code:

```swift
import Datadog

Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()
```

> To monitor requests sent from `URLSession` instance as resources, assign `DDURLSessionDelegate()` as a `delegate` of that `URLSession`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor requests sent from the `URLSession` instance as resources, assign `DDURLSessionDelegate()` as a `delegate` of that `URLSession`:
```
